# Representing Objects

**Goal**: Represent any object $x$ as

$$
E(x) \in \{0, 1\}^* \ \ \ \ E: \text{ domain } \to \{0, 1\}^*
$$

$E$ should be one-to-one, e.g. $E(x) = E(y) \iff x = y$.

## Easy start: Natural numbers

The encoding is defined as:

$$
E : \mathbb{N} \to \{0, 1\}^*
$$

This could be encoded using one's or two's complement, something like this:

$$
\begin{aligned}
0101_2 &= 0 \times 8 + 1 \times 4 + 0 \times 2 + 1 \times 1 \\
       &= 5
\end{aligned}
$$

We could also use unary, meaning a string of $0$s, e.g. $00000$ represents $5$.

By default, these encodings are not one-to-one. $00000$ can be $5$ or a $1$
and a $4$. What we can do is append a $1$ to every $0$-string to separate
digits:

$$
00100101 = 2, 2, 1 \\
000001 = 5
$$

This is a prefix-free encoding, which is often ambiguous.

> **Defn**: An encoding is prefix-free if no prefix (substring starting a first
> position) is a valid encoding of another object.

Approaches to prefix-free encoding:

- Add delimiters, unique (not used elsewhere)
- Fixed width

> **Note**: Performance is not important. We need some representation.

## Decoding

$E(x)$ is one-to-one, meaning given a defined $E(x)$, there is a $D(E(x))$ for
decoding.

$$
D : \{0, 1\}^* \to_p x
$$

$D$ is a partial function, because there may not be a valid decoding for a
certain value (since $E(x)$ is one-to-one which doesn't guarantee that all
outputs have a mapping).

## Representing Integers

- Signed bit
- One's and two's complement

## Rationals

We can use a 2-tuple $< \text{numerator}, \text{denominator} >$. $\frac{2}{3}$
can be represented as

- $0010 \ 0001$ (fixed-width)
- $001 \ 0001$ (unary, which can represent arbitrarily large numbers)

With $n$-tuples, this becomes ambiguous. For example, we can encode a 3-tuple
$001 \ 0001 \ 0000 1$, and we wouldn't know whether this is a 2-tuple and a
1-tuple or a 3-tuple.

We can add another delimiter into our encoding language and re-encode it in
binary. For example, we can encode it as $\{0, 1, ||\}$ and re-encode that into
binary as such:

- $00 = 0$
- $11 = 1$
- $10$ is the new separator $||$
- $01$ is unused

> The alphabet $\Sigma$ is the set of symbols used by encoding.

## Data Structures

- Graphs: $G : (V, E)$ ($V$ is the set of $\mathbb{N}$; $E$ is the set of 2-tuples).
	- Adjacency List
	- Adjacency Matrix
- Sets: $\{1, 2, 3\}, \{3, 4, 5\}$
- List: sets but allow duplicates
