# Chapter 5

Representing NAND-CIRC as binary data (code-as-data).

1.  Restrict to NAND-CIRC (no sugar)
2.  Don't use sensible names; we only need $\text{temp}_n$

    - First $n$ digit is the input
    - Last $m$ digits are the outputs

      ```
      0, 1, 2, 3, ..., k-1, k
      ^---  ^-------------  ^
      │     │               │
      input │               │
            output          │
                            temp
      ```

3.  Represent each statement as a 3-tuple

    - $\text{temp}_3 = \text{NAND}(\text{temp}_1, \text{temp}_2)$ becomes
      $(\text{temp}_3, \text{temp}_1, \text{temp}_2)$

      - We don't need $\text{NAND}$; it is implied.

    - Represent the entire program as another 3-tuple $(n, m, L)$

      - $n$ are the inputs
      - $m$ are the outputs
      - $L$ is the list of statements (code)

    - Example:

      $$
      \text{XOR}: \{0, 1\}^2 \to \{0, 1\} \\[1em]
      \begin{aligned}
      \text{temp}_2 &= \text{NAND}(\text{temp}_0, \text{temp}_1) \\
      \text{temp}_3 &= \text{NAND}(\text{temp}_0, \text{temp}_2) \\
      \text{temp}_4 &= \text{NAND}(\text{temp}_1, \text{temp}_2) \\
      \text{temp}_5 &= \text{NAND}(\text{temp}_3, \text{temp}_4) _{\ (\text{temp}_5 \text{ is our output})} \\
      \end{aligned}
      $$

      - As tuple:

        ```
        (2, 1, [(2, 0, 1), (3, 0, 2), (4, 1, 2), (5, 3, 4)])
        ```

4.  Encode $P$ in binary

    - Let $P$ contain $n$ statements.

    - Each statement is 3 variables, assuming they're all unique.

      - Variable takes $\lceil \log_2(3s) \rceil$ bits.
      - Statement takes $3 \lceil \log_2(3s) \rceil$ bits.
      - Program takes $3s \lceil \log_2(3s) \rceil$ bits.

    - For a circuit $c$ of $n$ NAND gates:

      - Translate the program to $P$ with $n$ statements.
      - Encode $P$ to binary.

    - Define a set of functions $\text{SIZE}_{n, m}(s)$.

      - **Note**: $\text{SIZE}_{n, m}(s)$ is a set, not a function.
      - It contains all functions $F : \{0, 1\}^n \to \{0, 1\}^m$ that can be
        implemented with $s$ gates.
      - We can use this to gauge how hard a problem is ("hard" meaning how many
        gates it would need).

    - Examples:

      - $\text{MAJ}_3 \in \text{SIZE}_{3, 1}(6)$
